# primercheck
Rapid in silico prediction of bacterial serotype by electro-PCR
# What is it?
This simple shell script is aiming for rapid batch screen the presence of target gene in numerous genome sequence dataset and generate a easy-read table. Here we provide 5 example primer files for prediction serotype of four most common swine bacterial pathogens, *Streptococcus suis*, *Glaesserella parasuis*, *Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae* and *Pasteurella multocida*. In fact, you can change the primers to any genes(clusters) you want to detect, just follow our template.
# Why write it?
It is very easy for a bioinformatican to manipulate the bioinformatic software, however, for those people from other area, from "This software can do it" to "I can handle this software to do it" is a very long way to go. So, even if this is a very simple shell script, I wish it could help to people who do the basic diagnostic jobs or scientists who focus on microbiology or other area and urgently need bioinformatic method, to free them from manual work, they may need to do a lot of PCR manually or align the sequence one by one by using BLAST to get the result, which is very time consuming.
# External Dependencies
Samtools (>=1.9)   
NCBI BLAST+ (>=2.2.18)  
primerServer2 https://github.com/billzt/PrimerServer2   
tsv-utils https://github.com/eBay/tsv-utils   
# Usage
It is very easy to use this script.
1. Put your genome sequence files in a folder.
2. Choose the correspond primer file of the species of your genome data, and copy to the folder with your genome data.
3. Copy ```primercheck.sh``` files to the same folder. Open it, change Line 4, primer.txt to the name of correspond primer files. for example: if the species of your genome dataset are *Sreptococcus suis*, you should change ```primer.txt``` to ```S_suis_primer.txt```.
4. Open a terminal and into the folder, get in the evironment if you create one by conda, type  
``` shell
bash primercheck.sh
```
  and enter.  
5. Wait to it finish. 
* We default to think the genome sequence file have a ".fna" suffix, if your file is not, please open the script and change every ".fna" to the suffix of your file.
# Output files
Three tsv format files will be generate after finished.   
result.01.tsv is a full table contains the result generated by primerserver2;   
result.02.tsv removed the redundant columns which is useless in serotyping;   
result.03.tsv removed all negative results.
